Morning.
Welcome to introducing
XPC here at WWDC 2011.
My name is Damien Sorresso.
I'm responsible for XPC, LaunchD,
and the associated
technologies here at Apple.
XPC is Apple's new inter-process
communication solution specifically
geared toward application developers.
So what we're going to do today
and what we're going to cover
is a bit of background on IPC.
And then we're going to use that and
go right into how we take concepts that
have existed for IPC for all these years
and apply them in a new way using XPC.
Then we're going to cover the actual
API calls you guys are going to use
in your code and peppered throughout,
we're going to have some examples.
So let's start with
inter-process communication.
According to the canonical
source of all knowledge,
inter-process communication
is a set of techniques for the
exchange of data among multiple
threads in one or more processes.
So what is this useful for?
Well, on modern operating systems,
we have address space separation.
So if you can get another address
space to do some work for you,
then if that address
space happens to crash,
you are unaffected.
In terms that impact app development,
you can factor out small tasks into
small helper tools that if they crash,
let's say because they
decoded a bad JPEG,
then instead of the entire
application coming down with it,
you instead just get a crash and say,
"Well, I couldn't decode this JPEG,
but feel free to continue on." And it
results in a much better user experience.
Also,
with Mac OS X Lion and the Mac App Store,
we're living in a brave
new App Sandboxing world.
So we really want to take applications
and split them up into little pieces,
each of which has the least
privileges necessary to do its job.
This way, if you're, again,
doing some sort of operation that is,
say, prone to buffer overflows or
something along those lines,
if there is an exploit in that operation,
then the exploit is localized to a
very small helper tool that doesn't
necessarily have all the privileges
that would let an attacker get all
the information they might want,
like, say, access to your user's
address book or mail.
So over the years, there have been a lot
of different frameworks,
APIs, and solutions for
inter-process communication.
When we started out with POSIX,
we had kill, signaling,
and then we had the file
descriptor based ones.
So you'd either use Schmatt
or Socket or a pipe,
and then you'd use read and
write to sling bytes all
throughout file descriptors.
Then we came into the
80s and we had Mach,
which introduced a message based API.
So instead of just sending raw
bytes and forcing the other side to
reconstruct the message that you sent,
perhaps from multiple reads,
you could just send the
entire message in one go.
And the Mach guys developed a
technology called MIG to wrap
around this and make it more or less
like a transparent function call.
And then as we got into Next Step and
Mac OS X as it exists today,
we have things like NS Connection,
NS Proxy,
which are used... which are used
to implement distributed objects,
and we have the CF stuff at the CF layer,
CF message port, CF Mach port.
So there's a lot,
and this is barely scratching the
surface of what exists for IPC today.
So we've got all these things.
How happy are we with them?
It's still pretty bad.
And...
The industry has kind of been
struggling with this about,
you know,
we've been coming up with new ways
to sling bytes back and forth.
But that's only one dimension of IPC.
You'll notice that in 2004,
the amount of misery
dropped just a little bit.
What happened there?
Well, LaunchD happened.
And how does LaunchD help
make IPC easier?
Well, LaunchD introduced the
concept of on-demand services.
So prior to LaunchD,
you had to have a client and a server
negotiate their lifetime with each other.
So if the server was not running,
the client had to make sure to start it.
The server had to put
a PID file somewhere.
The client had to recognize
the PID file was there.
And then it would go from there
and find some socket on disk.
And then it would connect to that.
And if anything bad happened
throughout this whole process,
you had to go back to the
beginning and start over.
So we want to build on this experience
we've gained with LaunchD and
introduce a more complete solution.
So the '70s,
they gave us the ability to set
up a pipeline and send bytes.
LaunchD gave us On Demand,
but there's still a
couple things missing.
And those are what XPC provides.
We need to provide automated
bootstrapping and structured
messages and wrap all of this up in
a nice API that's very app centric.
So how are we going to do this?
Well, we're taking a familiar concept,
Model View Controller,
and applying a little twist to it.
So let's talk a little bit about
Model View Controller first.
I'm sure a lot of you, if not all of you,
are familiar with this already.
Model View Controller is a very popular
design pattern to separate your app
into three basic units of functionality.
And it's designed to
encourage modularity.
Because if you logically
group functionality,
it makes changes less risky,
and it makes your code
much easier to maintain.
So with Model View Controller,
as you may have guessed,
the three things are your data model.
This is the stuff that the user
interacts with only in an abstract way.
This is how you're going to
model the underlying parts of
the data your code operates on.
And then we have the
UI presentation layer.
This is all the code that's responsible
for doing all the great animations that
you guys have seen in various WWC demos.
And then we have the business logic.
This is typically the code that
glues the data model and the
presentation layer together.
So it's more of the mundane stuff,
but absolutely necessary.
Now I said we're going
to apply a twist to this.
And to understand what that twist is,
you need to understand what
Model-V Controller offers.
It encourages modularization
at the source code level.
So your files are factored
out and everything's separate.
And you can even use it to encourage
modularization at the project
level by making your app able
to load third party plug-ins.
But it still only applies
to one address space.
When you compile it all together,
all the Dottos get linked together,
they're all the same thing.
The operating system does not know
the difference and it does not know
about all the hard work you've done to
separate these things from each other.
So a fault at any one of those
layers has the exact same effect.
So the twist we're going to
have is that we want to apply
Model View Controller to address spaces.
And the most useful thing to isolate
from your app is usually the data model.
So if you're going to do
things like decompress a JPEG,
deal with a PNG, parse an H.264 movie,
apply a GZIP filter, whatever,
we can take that and move it off
into a separate address space
and apply the principle of least
privileges to each of these parts.
And because they're in
separate address spaces,
the OS enforces the strict
separation of all the
functionality of your application.
And so what we have is
basically a fundamental
redefinition of what an app is.
It is not one big
monolithic chunk of code.
It's many pieces of code working
together to present a consistent
and robust user experience.
And we've taken,
we've used this new model to
great success within Apple.
So we've got two examples
we'd like to talk about.
The first is QuickTime Player and
the second is Preview.
Now what QuickTime Player does is
it takes any video you feed it,
like an H.264 stream,
and decodes it in an XPC service.
And this service is sandboxed and
isolated and it basically can't do
anything except run code on the CPU.
There's really no I.O.
that it can do.
And this is efficient because we use I.O.
surface so that the separate process,
the service, can draw directly.
And then we can also use the I.O.
to create a new application that's going
to be able to run the same process.
So we've got a lot of
different ways to do this.
And since the service is doing all
the hard work of parsing H.264,
the stuff that's really easy to
get wrong and sometimes introduces
crashes or security vulnerabilities,
crashes in that service don't
affect QuickTime Player.
So the user doesn't have all the other
movies they have open taken down.
And if a crash in the service
turns out to be exploitable,
well,
there's little to nothing that that code
can do because they can't read anything.
So they can't harvest
the user's address book,
they can't harvest mail,
and they certainly can't elevate
privileges and run arbitrary code at a
privilege level that's anything useful.
So that's one example.
Our second example, preview,
is a sandboxed app.
Now sandboxed apps live
inside a little container,
and they have no access to anything
beyond that container by default.
This is very much how it works on iOS,
and now we've taken that
and put it on Mac OS X.
But Preview has to be able to
open separate documents sometimes.
So if a user opens a PDF,
that PDF may reference other PDF files.
And Preview solves this problem
by parsing the PDF that it's
opened in a separate XPC service,
because again,
parsing can be dangerous work.
And Preview only has access
to what it actually needs and
what the user has actually said
that it should have access to.
And this allows us to minimize the
impact of any exploits that might
exist in the PDF parsing code.
So those are some examples
of how we've used XPC.
Let's talk about how you
guys would want to use XPC.
Well, first of all,
XPC is new on Lion and it's only
available on Mac OS X currently.
And what we've done with XPC and
services and these separate helpers
is we've made them part of your app.
They do not reside outside
your app bundle in any way.
They never get moved
or copied from there.
They are always in there and they
are automatically bootstrapped.
You guys do not have to call a single
API to install these privileged helpers.
The system just detects that they're
there and does the right thing.
And the helpers themselves have
their process lifecycle controlled
by a runtime behind the scenes.
So you don't have to worry about
lingering helpers taking up system
resources when they're idle.
We take care of all that for you.
A little more in depth,
we identify a service by
its CFBundle identifier.
We're big fans of reverse DNS.
We use it all over the place,
as you'll see.
Your services are little bundles that
will live in the content slash xpc
services directory of your application.
Services are meant to be
purely on demand and stateless.
So a service should have as
little state as possible,
and it's meant to do a little piece of
work efficiently and then go away so it
takes up as few resources as possible.
And we will automatically track
the activity of your service.
We know when you're receiving a message,
we know when you're processing a reply,
and we know when you have
no more outstanding work.
So we can idle exit you when
we know that you've gone idle.
And on Mac OS X and
Lion in the App Store,
this is the only way to separate
privileges in the App Sandboxing world.
So if you have a piece of code
that you want to run with,
say, an entitlement that you don't
necessarily want to put on your app,
an XPC service is the way to do it.
And for the entire shebang,
code signing is required.
So this is what the bundle
structure looks like.
As I said before, we have this contents
XPC services directory.
And we name our bundles with
the reverse DNS style name.
So that must be identical to
the CFBundle identifier that's
specified in your bundles Info.plist.
So in this case,
we have a photo uploader app.
And it might want to have a
separate service responsible
for actually doing an upload.
And it might have a service that's
responsible for unzipping any,
say, gzipped replies that the
server might send back.
Digging into one of those services,
we have basically just the
executable and an Info.plist and
any associated resources that you
want to include in your bundle.
And notice that we name the executable
com.mycompany.photouploader.service
functionality.
And again, we enforce that this must be
the same as the bundle name
in your CFBundle identifier.
This is so that when you see this
thing running an activity monitor,
it's very clear what application
it belongs to and what it's doing.
The default environment of a
service is very restrictive.
As I said before, we really wanted these
things to be small,
stateless, and on demand.
So think of them more
as background agents,
like let's say you set the LSUI element
bit in your info P list for your app,
rather than an actual app themselves.
And by default,
we will throw you into a GCD run
loop by calling dispatch main.
And each service runs in a
separate security session
from the app that hosts it.
So the service does not have access to
the keychain credentials or the keychain
access that the app does by default.
Now if you need these behaviors,
or if you need to modify them slightly,
we have a few bits in the info P list
of your service that you can set.
The first is the run loop.
If you need to integrate with
NS run loop transparently,
you can set this run loop key
to be the NS run loop string,
and we will call NS run loop run
instead of dispatch main to get
things moving in your run loop.
And if your service does need
access to the host keychain entries,
then you can set this
join existing session bit,
and we will put you in the same
session that the host app is in.
And we also have an environment
variables dictionary so that you can
specify any environment variables
and key value form in a dictionary
that your service may need.
Now let's talk a little
bit about the XPC API.
We have two fundamental components
at the lib system level.
So you don't have to actually
link against anything new.
All you have to do is include
a header and you're good to go.
The first is the Object API.
And this is the API that
lets you construct,
decompose, and generally handle an
IPC request from another process.
And the second is the Transport API,
which is responsible for managing
the communication pipeline
between a server and its client.
So we're going to start, well, sorry.
These things are actually
very closely tied together.
Traditionally in IPC, the network,
or the connection and object
serialization parts have been separate.
So the pipe that you're sending the
bytes over doesn't actually know anything
about the structure of those bytes.
And we decided to take a different
approach by letting the pipeline actually
know something about the structure
of the bytes that you were sending.
So we've kind of unified the
object and transport layers of IPC.
And as a consequence of this,
the fact that there's serialization
going on behind the scenes is
just an implementation detail.
There's no public serialization format
that we guarantee or expose to you.
So let's talk a little
bit about XPC objects.
XPC objects are basically
propertyless style objects.
And we've taken them and really
just distilled them down to what's
fundamentally necessary to very
quickly and very easily send a request,
or construct a request, send it,
and decompose it.
And to this end,
we've applied some constraints to
the different kinds of objects.
So any container class
or collection is mutable.
There's no immutable array variant,
for example.
But all the leaf nodes,
that is the object types that
cannot reference other objects,
are immutable.
So once you create them,
they are freeze dried
and locked in stone.
And we've taken the
API and we've made it,
we've really optimized it for very
easy message packing and unpacking,
and all XPC objects are
retainable and releasable.
So they're even useful outside
the context of sending messages.
So collection wise, we have both kinds.
We have arrays and we have dictionaries.
And those are the two really,
really fundamental kinds of collections
that you want to send or that you
want to structure in a message
that you send to another process.
And we have a very rich collection
of just pure data representations.
We have anything from a null to
all the way to a string and a UUID.
And again, these are all immutable.
So once you create them from
the raw data that you have,
they're locked in stone.
Now since we know something,
since the transport layer
knows something about the
serialization and the object layer,
we're also able to offer
support for out of line types.
So you can actually
create a file descriptor,
put it inside a dictionary or an array,
send that message
across to another party,
and that party will get a file descriptor
that is equivalent to the one you had.
And we can also do this
with shared memory,
and there is also an IOSurface
API that gives you an XPC object
and then lets you construct an
IOSurface from that object as well.
So you can use this to very easily
give your service an IOSurface.
As I said,
we took a lot of opportunities to
optimize the collection classes for
convenient packing and unpacking.
And one of the things that has
traditionally been kind of a pain that
required a lot of code with respect to
constructing an object graph has been
wrapping primitive types up first,
then inserting them into the dictionary,
and then taking the boxed object
back out of the dictionary,
checking its type,
and then getting at the underlying value.
So what we've done for our collections,
the dictionaries and the arrays,
we've given them accessors that
let you get directly at the
underlying primitive value.
So you don't have to do all
the work of extracting a type
or extracting a box object,
checking its type,
and then extracting the underlying value.
We let you get directly at it.
And this allows for very
quick composition and
decomposition of messages.
And again,
there's no type checking needed.
Now because of this,
we have to be able to return some sort
of sensible default in the case that
the type of the object you're trying
to get at does not match what you
expect or that is simply not present.
So if you try to get a Boolean value out
of a dictionary and the key you've asked
for either is not present or the value
for that key is not actually a bool,
we will simply return false.
And we have a set of sensible
primitive types for all the other
types we support or primitive returns
for all the other types we support.
And if it happens that the
default value is in your,
you know,
set of expected values that you can get,
then you actually do have
to go down the slow path,
extract the boxed object,
do the type checking.
But for the 80 or 90% use case,
this will make your life a lot easier.
So let's look at some code.
The first thing you're going
to do is include xpc/xpc.h.
Then if you want to create a dictionary,
we have the XPC dictionary create API.
And all of our APIs follow
the familiar create,
get,
and copy conventions that are enumerated
in the core foundation API guidelines.
Now we're going to create an N64.
So 64-bit wide signed integer,
and we're going to create
it with a value of 640.
And then to insert it,
we just do xpc dictionary set value,
and you're done.
After, of course, you release it.
But doing the release is a pain and
making the boxed object is a pain.
So let's just use the primitive setters.
Well, we've got our same dictionary,
but instead of creating the boxed object
and then setting the value for that,
all we're going to do is call xpc
dictionary set int 64 and give it
our key and give it the underlying
primitive value that we want to set,
and you're done.
The value is now in the dictionary,
and you can get at it with
one of the primitive getters.
So if we want to get back at that value,
we do xpc dictionary get int 64,
and then that will return
directly to us the value that
was boxed up for the key x.
Now, we inserted a y in there as well,
but we did not insert a z.
So when we ask for z...
Because it is not present
in the dictionary,
we'll get back a value of zero.
And we'll also get back
zero if we did insert z,
but let's say we made
it a string instead.
Now let's talk about XPC connections.
These are the fundamental primitives
that you're going to use for sending
messages back and forth between
your application and your services.
Connections are virtual.
So the fact that you have a connection
to a service implies nothing about
whether that service is running.
When you send a message
over that connection,
we'll launch the service on demand
to process the message and that's it.
You don't have to worry about negotiating
PID files or anything weird like that.
Connections are also bidirectional.
So the same thing that you're going
to send your message over is also the
same primitive that's going to give
you back the responses from the server.
And all of it is asynchronous
and non-blocking.
So when you send a
message over a connection,
it returns immediately
and we do not block.
And we just take the message and
we enqueue it behind the scenes
and our runtime will transparently
send the messages when we can.
And we'll send all your
messages in FIFO order.
So, let's take a look at a little fun
animation about how XPC connections work.
So we're starting out, here's your app.
Your app has a service and
it's going to talk to it.
The first thing the service
sees is a peer connection.
So it's a lot like the accept model
where you're listening on a file
descriptor and then you just get new
file descriptors out of there and those
represent independent connections.
And then the app's going
to send some messages.
And the messages on the other end of the
connection are dequeued in FIFO order.
The service is going to do some
work and then it's going to
send responses back to the app.
And then the service might go away
or it might close the connection
and then the app is actually
notified that that event happened.
So you know about the state of your
connection in the same way that messages
are delivered to your connection.
Let's take a look at the
client side of the code here.
So as I said, we're going to create,
the services are identified
by their bundle identifier.
So that is how we're going to create
a connection to the service we want.
And we're going to call
xpcconnectioncreate to a service
called com.apple.service.
The second parameter is a dispatch
queue that is the target queue
that all of the events that fire
on the connection will execute on.
And you always need to set an
event handler for a client.
So if you're using a connection,
we'll get a little bit deeper
into event handlers later.
But once you've done that,
you resume the connection by
calling xpcconnectionresume.
That tells the runtime that
you're happy with the state of
the connection and that you want
to start receiving messages on it.
Now messages in XPC are
always dictionaries.
And so we're going to create a
dictionary that's our message.
We're going to set some UN64 in there.
And then we're going to call
xpc-connection-send-message.
Once we did that, we're done.
The runtime behind the scenes
retains a reference to the message,
so we can just release it.
Sometime later,
the message will be delivered.
Now because we've enqueued
a message to be sent,
we're going to launch
the service on demand.
And because we've got our
single connection object
on the application side,
there is also going to be a new peer
connection object on the server side.
So even if your app creates multiple
connections to the same service,
they all show up as multiple
connections on that end.
They're not all unified just because
they happen to be from the same PID.
So as I said before,
message sends are non-blocking.
And we maintain a queue of
messages to send for you.
So you can send as many as you want,
and we will send them as
fast as we possibly can.
But if you need to know when a
message was delivered-- let's
say you had a really big chunk
of data that you wanted to send,
and you want to know when that data
has left your address space so that
you can start allocating more--
You can use this XPC connection
send barrier API.
And you just call this right after you've
called XPC connection send message.
And then we will invoke this block
that you provide on the connections
target queue after we have sent the
message that you provided for us.
And then again, release the message at
the end when you're done.
Looking at the server side,
or the service side,
an XPC service is going to call xpc_main
with a single argument which is a
function that is your event handler.
And that event handler is going to
receive new peer connections whenever
there is a new connection to it.
So, in the new connection handler,
you can see that it accepts
a single parameter that is
of type XPC connection T.
And then from there, we're going to,
in the same fashion as we
handle the connection that we
got from XPC connection create,
we have a similar set of responsibilities
for the connections we get in
this new connection handler.
So, we're going to set an event handler
and we're going to resume it.
Now, because this came in as
a parameter from a block,
by convention,
you do not have a reference to
the connection that you get.
So, if you want to keep a reference,
you can call XPC retain
on that peer connection.
Now, we've got this little peer event
handler thing inside our block.
So let's take a look at
what that looks like.
So our pure event handler,
we're going to check the type
of the event that we got.
If it's a dictionary,
then we got a message.
And so we should decompose the message,
figure out what the request is,
and then handle it.
But we can also get
different kinds of events,
in this case, errors.
So what happens if we get an error?
What does it mean?
Well, errors in XPC can be directly
compared using pointer equality.
So we're going to check if the event is
equal to XPC error connection invalid.
And what that means is that the remote
side has closed down its connection.
So this is your cue to tear down
any data structures that you may
have associated with this peer.
We also have another type of
error that connections can receive
that indicates whether or not,
or that indicates your
service is about to go away,
but you still have
outstanding work to do.
So this is your cue to
flush all your buffers,
write data to disk, etc.
We'll get more into that later.
And since we retained a reference
to the peer when we got it,
this is our cue to
release that reference.
So you can send and receive
messages across a connection,
but a very useful pattern in terms of
dealing with a server is being able to
get a single reply to a single request.
So even if you receive a
message over your connection,
if you want to tie it
to a specific action,
it's up to you to track the state of it
and demux the reply when it comes in to
figure out what you have to do with it.
So we let you do a one to one mapping
of a message to a reply handler block.
And this is independent of
the connections event handler.
So when we deliver messages to you,
you'll get these FIFO stream of messages
that go to the connection handler.
And then you'll just get us, you know,
each reply handler block will be
invoked individually on its own.
So the semantics of this reply handler
are very similar to the semantics of
the event handler of a connection.
If you get a dictionary,
that's your reply.
Just deconstruct it and
handle it however you want.
Or else, if you get an error,
that indicates that for some reason,
the remote end will never reply.
That could mean that
the remote end crashed.
It could mean that it chose
not to reply to the message.
It could mean that it simply
closed its connection to you down.
On the server side,
it's up to you in your message schema
and protocol to tell the server that
I expect a reply to this message
because the server has to do something
a little bit special to get a reply sent
back to you in a one-to-one fashion.
So, otherwise,
sending a reply message is very much
the same as sending a normal one.
The big difference is that we're going
to call this xpc dictionary create
reply API and it gets a single argument,
which is the message that
you want to reply to.
And then it gives you back a dictionary
that when you send it over a connection,
we know to invoke the single reply
handler block rather than the
connections event handler block.
But otherwise, it's exactly the same.
You just call xpc
connection send message.
and then you release the message
when you're done with it.
So we covered errors a little bit before.
Let's talk about them a
little bit more in depth.
We have three errors,
which is a vast error space, I know.
And the first is XPC error
connection interrupted.
This is your cue to re-sync
any state to the other end.
And what connection interrupted means is
that something happened on the other end,
but we can still get to the server.
So the server may have crashed,
for example.
In this case,
that just means that it's up to you to
send a message back to the server saying,
by the way,
you were doing some work on behalf of me,
and I'd like you to finish it, please.
And this is something that we can
do because services have names,
and those names are always available,
and we can always reconnect.
Now, if you get the XPC error
connection invalid,
that means that the connection
is just no longer usable.
So in this case, it might be a PNN.
It's a peer connection that you got
from the XPC main event handler.
And because if that connection goes away,
it's not backed by a service name,
so we cannot reconstruct it.
And then the last one we have is
the termination imminent error.
And that is your signal that you
should prepare to exit cleanly.
So that means the app wants to
go away for whatever reason,
but you... you still have some
outstanding work that we've detected.
So we need you to finish that work in
a timely fashion because we're going to
send SIGKILL to your process very soon.
So the errors that can be delivered
to different types of connections,
as I said before,
connection interrupted can only be
delivered to connections that you
get back from XPC connection create,
which are named connections.
So then that just means
remote end closed it,
went away, did whatever,
it was just a blip in the pipeline.
The connection invalid error can
only be delivered to peers received
from the XPC main event handler.
And this is because a named
connection can always be reconstructed
because the name is always there.
A peer connection that the service
receives can never be reconstructed.
So,
And the termination imminent
error will again only be delivered
to peer connections because
it's only relevant to a service,
because the service is
the thing doing work.
Now we have some other functionality
in XPC that doesn't directly
relate to application development,
but is still very useful for
anybody who's writing daemons.
And so we've made LaunchD and XPC work
together in some really nice ways that
we think will be very beneficial to
anybody writing a daemon on Mac OS X.
And the first way we've done this is
that we let you use XPC to communicate
with launch to advertise services.
So in a launch DP list,
you can advertise a service.
And that is called a Mach service.
So we can use this XPC connection
create Mach service API to create
connections to services that are
advertised in launch DP lists.
So what this means is that you
cannot dynamically register a name.
It must be declared up
front in a launch DP list,
and then that P list should live
in slash library launch agents
or slash library launch daemons.
Now, because we don't have the full
XPC environment in a launch D job,
you have to manually set up your
listener so it's a little bit more
complicated and the error cases are
slightly more complicated as well.
So how you would do this is
that you put this Mach services
key in your launch DP list.
And we're just going to call
it com.apple.xpc.example.
And the value is just
a Boolean saying true.
And then when you want to
connect to this service,
it's actually on the client side very
much the same as if you were connecting
to one of your app's bundled services.
So you just call xpc_connection
create_mock_service with the name
and then your target_queue parameter.
And at the very end is a
flags parameter that for now
we're just going to pass 0 to.
And then we're going to set the
event handler very much the same way
we did for an application service.
And then we resume the connection.
So very similar on this side.
It's on the server side that things
get slightly more complicated.
So we're going to set up
this listener connection.
And we're going to do that by
calling the same XPC service or
XPC connection CreateMockService API.
But instead of a 0 at the end,
we're going to pass xpcConnection
mockServiceListener.
And the difference between
this connection and,
let's say, a peer connection that you get
from the xpcMadeEventHandler is
that the only kinds of objects this
connection will get in its event
handler are connections themselves.
So you can take this event and
safely cast it to an xpcConnectionT.
Otherwise, the new peer event handler is
effectively equivalent to the handler
that you would pass to xpcMade.
And again,
we resume the connection to let the
runtime know that we're ready to go.
Our next feature that we've made
LaunchD and XPC work together on
is something we call XPC events.
And these are basically for
handling messages from the system.
You don't necessarily have some client
out there who's sending you messages,
but there are some system events
that you might be interested in.
And what these basically are are
alternate sources of demand for
launching yourself on demand.
And we've got an architecture that
lets us support and implement arbitrary
user space and kernel events through
a very elegant event delivery API.
And you enumerate the events that you're
interested in in your LaunchDP list.
So when I say events,
I might be talking about I/O Kit,
which has been one of our most long
standing feature requests for LaunchD,
is the ability to launch a job on demand
when a certain I/O Kit event happens.
And we've done that here.
So the first thing you're going to
do is make this new launch events
dictionary in your LaunchDP list.
And then in there is a
sub-dictionary that says,
these are the I/O Kit events
I'm interested in.
And that is just the signature,
which is com.apple I/O Kit.matching.
That itself is a dictionary of
events that you're interested in.
And so you might be a vendor
distributing a device and so that is,
let's just call it
com.apple.deviceattach.
And then you just specify your matching
dictionary as you normally would.
You put your product ID, your vendor ID,
provider class,
whatever I/O Kit event you want,
you can match on and you'll be
launched on demand when it happens.
And there's one more thing you
have to put in for I/O Kit support
in your matching dictionary,
which is this IOMatchStreamKey
and you need to set it to true.
We also support BSD notifications.
So BSD notifications aren't
quite as complex as I/O Kit.
They're just names.
So whenever somebody uses the
notify APIs to post something,
your LaunchD job might want to be
launched on demand when that happens.
So the event system that you're
going to use instead is the
com.apple.notifyD.matching system.
And then all you do in your
event dictionary is say,
this is the notification name.
And with this, you can very easily,
very simply launch your job on demand
when anybody posts a notification.
And they don't even have
to know who you are.
You're just interested
in some system event.
So you also need to consume
these notifications.
So your LaunchD job needs to
receive events through some handler.
As I said before,
if one of these events happens and you're
interested in it and you're not running,
LaunchD will launch you on demand.
And as you're running,
we will continue to feed you events.
So we do that through this
XPC set event stream handler.
And this is a very simple API that just
gives you the events that have happened.
So because the events are queued up and
you receive them through this handler,
we guarantee that even
if the event happened,
let's say while your process was exiting
and before LaunchD restarted you,
that you will get that event
and be relaunched to process it.
So the first argument is the event
system that you're interested in,
the event stream.
And so in this case, we're interested in
com.apple I/O Kit.matching.
The second parameter is a queue that you
want to fire this event handler block on.
And the third parameter is the
actual event handler block itself.
It's the same type as an event
handler for a connection.
In the case of an I/O Kit,
so all events that you receive
through this handler are
guaranteed to have one key set,
at least in a dictionary,
and that is the xpc event key name.
And that tells you what
event actually fired.
So in your LaunchDP list,
you assigned a name to
the event dictionary,
com.apple.
or com.vendor.deviceattach.
That's what this API or that's
what this key will give you back.
So you can use it to distinguish among
any interested events that you have.
And in the case of I/O Kit,
we actually give you the
I/O registry entry ID of the
node that caused this to fire.
So if you know anything about I/O Kit,
you can take this ID,
pass it to the I/O Kit APIs,
and then get directly an
I/O Object T node that you can use
to communicate with the registry.
You don't have to reconstruct your
matching dictionary in code to do it.
We just tell you which
node actually fired.
So different event streams, you know,
I/O Kit versus BSD notifications,
will have different payloads.
In the case of BSD notifications,
there's nothing really to be a payload.
The name that you provided
is payload enough.
Currently, we support launching on demand
for I/O Kit and BSD notifications,
but we fully intend to add more
event streams as time goes on.
But we think this is a really good
starting set that will provide
developers a lot of functionality
to get their jobs running on demand.
So that's the end of our session.
We've got a few related sessions
I'd encourage you to check out.
Yesterday was Introducing App Sandbox,
and just earlier today was the
Blocks in Grand Central Dispatch
in Practice session.
Tomorrow,
I very heavily encourage you to check
out Mastering Grand Central Dispatch.
It's going to be a great session.
And for more conceptual
overview about Launch on Demand,
check out the Launch on Demand
session from last year's WWDC.
And documentation-wise,
we fully intend to have man pages,
but we do not have them yet.
Instead, what we've got is a pretty good
coverage in the header docs.
So take a look at User Include
XPC for any API-related questions,
because what we talked about today for
XPC was very much scratching the surface.
There's a whole lot more
stuff we couldn't cover.
And of course, we're going to be talking
about the XPC in a little bit.
So if you're interested in
learning more about XPC,
please do so.
Any questions you have,
please post them on the dev forums.
We check them regularly,
and we'd be happy to
answer your questions.
So with that, thanks for coming.